# Table of Contents
1.   [MONGO DB](#introduction)
2.   [Example2](#example2)
3.   [Third Example](#third-example)
4.   [Fourth Example](#fourth-examplehttpwwwfourthexamplecom)

Courtesy of https://www.educative.io/courses/mongodb-complete-guide/xoBrYpgWByB

# MONGO DB
- it is a NO-SQL Database
- it is a document oriented database

Q: What is the difference between RDBMS and NoSQL?
A: RDBMS use rows and columns to store data in a structured format whereas NoSQL store data in the form of collections.

Additionally, there are other types of databases such as graph databases, key-value stores, and object-oriented databases.
A graph database is composed of nodes that each store data and there relation to other nodes.
A key-value store is a database that stores data in the form of key-value pairs.

## Normalization
Normalization is an important concept that improves database structure, maintains data integrity, and reduces data redundancy.

## ACID
ACID is a set of properties that guarantee that database transactions are processed reliably.
A transaction is a logical unit of work that contains one or more database operations.

## MongoDB supports transactions starting from version 4.0.

## What is a no-sql database?
NoSQL databases store data in the form of JavaScript Object Notation (JSON), key-value pair, wide-column, and graphs.

## Benefits of NoSQL databases?
- They do not require a predefined schema. This means that you can add or remove fields dynamically.
- They are horizontally scalable. This means that you can add more servers to increase the performance of your database.
  Horizontal scaling simply adds more instances of machines without first implementing improvements to existing specifications. By scaling out, you share the processing power and load balancing across multiple machines.
  Horizontal scaling means adding more machines to the resource pool, rather than simply adding resources by scaling vertically.
- They can easily stored unstructured data. Queries can be faster than RDBMS.